

VOLCKER REAFFIRMS G

-6 NEGOTIATING PROCESS
    WASHINGTON, March 26 - Federal Reserve Board Chairman Paul
Volcker urged Congress to allow the government to continue its
flexible negotiations on exchange rates through procedures such
as the recent Paris meeting of industrialized countries.
    In a letter to House Banking Committee chairman Fernand St.
Germain, Volcker said he opposed legislation to formalize
international negotiations on exchange rates and to require
Treasury Secretary James Baker to disclose plans for currency
intervention.
    Volcker's letter was written March 24 in advance of the
committee's March 25 approval of the proposed legislation.
    "The fundamental policy objectives of the United States can
best be implemented in a more flexible framework, such as
through the recent meeting in Paris of Finance Ministers and
Central Bank governors," Volcker said.
    He recommended Congress not lock the administration into
formal procedures for international exchange rate negotiations
to achieve specific exchange rate goals.
    "The achievement of a sustainable pattern of U.S.
international transactions and more stability in exchange rates
are ones with which I remain sympathetic," he said.
    The Banking Committee's bill directs the administration to
to start negotiations to reach a competitive exchange rate for
the U.S. dollar "runs the risk of build up potentially
destabilizing market expectations," Volcker said.
    A requirement that Baker disclose his intervention policy
could reduce the usefulness of intervention as a tool to deal
with exchange rate volatility, Volcker added.
    Baker has also opposed the legislation which will be
wrapped into a major trade bill for consideration in the House
in late April. The Senate will consider its version of the
trade bill in May.

