

OPEC OUTPUT IN MAY SEEN OVER CEILING AT 17 MLN BPD LONDON, June

1 - OPEC's May output appears to have risen well above its 15.8
mln bpd ceiling to 17 mln bpd, and the increase is likely to
put a short-term lid on spot oil prices, Kleinwort Grieveson
Securities says.
    But Kleinwort's latest World Oil Report said re-stocking
and lower non-OPEC output earlier this year should allow the
group to produce up to 17 mln bpd in the current third quarter.
    "On the supply/demand front, the market continues to enjoy a
degree of stability rarely seen in recent years," it said.
    It said most OPEC members were overproducing slightly but
only the United Arab Emirates (UAE) was seriously above quota.
    The report said Saudi Arabia had been sending clear signals
on the need to maintain oil prices at current levels of around
18 dlrs a barrel and adopt provisional output rises agreed in
December when OPEC meets in Vienna on June 25. If OPEC adopts
the provisional ceilings of 16.6 mln bpd in third quarter and
18.3 mln bpd in the fourth, there will probably be room for
overproduction in the third quarter when demand for its crude
will probably be 17.5 to 18 mln, it said.
    It said that the UAE and Ecuador may demand higher quotas
in Vienna, but the biggest obstacle is Iraq, which has refused
to honour its quota as it is less than that of Gulf War enemy
Iran.
    But OPEC appears committed to a short meeting and realises
something must be done about the Iraq issue, the report said.
    According to Kleinwort's sources, Saudi Arabia has already
held separate talks with Iran and Iraq and is urging Iraq to be
more moderate.
    "One strong indication that some kind of deal may be
eventually worked out is the almost complete silence coming
from Iran," it said.
    Indications are that, in return for going along with the
Saudi desire to maintain official prices in Vienna, Iran is
seeking concessions from the kingdom on the Iraq issue, it
said.
    Kleinwort said the kingdom will face an increasingly uphill
task in trying to maintain prices around 18 dlrs beyond 1987.
    Firstly, OPEC hardliners led by Iran are bound to oppose
such a move. Secondly, other OPEC members will press for
another price rise if the dollar remains weak against other
currencies.
    Thirdly, Saudi Arabia may be forced to raise prices earlier
than it intended to ward off growing calls for higher prices
from the U.S. To stimulate domestic drilling and exploration.
    The report concluded that there is a strong possibility
official OPEC prices will rise to 20 dlrs a barrel by end-1987
and 22 dlrs a barrel by end-1988.

